Register for the "Digital Forensics Basics" course at - https://teex.org/class/awr139/

What do I need to know?

File system structure of various OS, to understand where the juicy information can be found

Information vs Data?

Information-Anything relevant to the case
Data-Any digital evidence that is not data

How to distinguish between less important data and information?

Data is moved into files (logical units)
Logical units are further divided into directories/folders

Data about data-Metadata (Date range,time range,folder/file size,hidden/system files)

The performance level of digital device-Some may retrieve data at ow/high speed-depends on the partition system implemented and also based on location 

Directory structure boundaries can also limit the data that is accessible. If boundaries are not set properly, then applications working within them won't work

Raw Access-Making a part of the file partition unavailable. It is used by skilled attackers to hide data. The data in the space can be modified, but cannot be grouped into files/directories.

These unavailable spaces may also occur as a result of automatic partitioning processes when the system is installed or re-installed. When re-installing, a portion of data from previous installations may be retrieved from these unavailable or un-allocated spaces. Retrieval is possible even if the content of each partition was removed before re-install.

Storage Devices
Large storage devices need to have some strategy to specify a location in the media, where the data is to be stored

Stream Devices-Example Tape
Data is stored in serialized order
You can assign the beginning and end of the file
Disadvantage-Fragmentation

Block Devices-Example Hard Disks and Flash Drives
Files are divided into units called blocks
It tracks the amount of space left over
Blocks are assigned into groups called clusters for optimization

Data Transfer devices and Interfaces=SCSI Cards, Firewire(USB), ATA/IDE, and SATA Hard Drive

PC Cards/Express Cards-Used to extend a computer's memory. It also offers functionality to increase hard disk size

Flash media is not ideal media for collecting evidence because evidence loss can occur if it is stored for several years.

Gathering evidence from storage devices must be done without
disturbing or contaminating the evidence.

For instance, issuing hard drive defragmentation can wipe out the file slack or unused data that could be valuable to the case. Simply turning on a computer can even modify system files that would be helpful to an investigation. As a result, forensics investigators should carry "write-blockers" to prevent updates to the evidence during the evidence-gathering phase. A write-blocker is implemented in hardware as a special adapter that blocks electronic signals that would cause the hard disk to write.

High Available Storage Options:-
Hardware Storage Clusters
Software
Network
High Availability Clusters

Hibernation Mode=When prompted to hibernate, the CPU, will make a copy state of CPU, into another file, along with all running processes

2 different paradigms in storing data and metadata

I)Store data to blocks and metadata to a centralized data structure

2)Distribute both metadata and data across the disk, along with maintaining a static data structure with sufficient size

File Slack-Unused data block from a block, continuing till the end of cluster

Can/cannot be reset back to factory settings?

Windows Default Configuration for storing files-C:
Directories within them:-
Documents/Settings             Windows
Program Files                  Recycler


Cloud Storage Systems:-

Web Service-The cloud storage is in your local device, but files get uploaded onto the internet, through the cloud provider's API

Web Interface-Log in online, to upload and download files
Gateway-

What should be copied into evidence?
Bits or blocks should be copied, which can reveal hidden or deleted files. Also, it can allow investigators to view full blocks of data

