Register for the "Digital Forensics Basics" course at - https://teex.org/class/awr139/

DFIR Module 3 
	 
	Question Answering-Questions asked by the court, to which the forensic investigator gives reasonable answers 
	 
	Answers provided are either inculpatory or exculpatory 
	Purpose of a Private Investigation:- 
	 
	a)To check if the wrong person has been held guilty 
	b)Check if a team member is performing deeds in violation of company 
	c)If the suspect/employee is causing loss of revenue to the company 
	 
	Digital Evidence Report Documentation Guidelines 
	 
	Document for prosecution purposes-Written report 
	Expectations of the report or Evidentiary reporting-What, Where, W.., W.. questions should be answered with absolute proof and with conclusive evidence. 
	 
	What actions were taken to secure and collect the digital evidence to ensure the integrity of the evidence? 
	 
	A section describing the experience and qualifications of the persons conducting the digital evidence examinations, and their knowledge of and training in national standards of digital evidence recovery. 
	 
	Documentation will exhaustively outline and detail what steps were taken to preserve the digital evidence during the seizure, examination, storage, and transfer activities. 
	 
	The report will present, from the point of the digital examiner, what policies and procedures were followed, who developed them, and the steps are taken to follow them. 
	 
	Documentation will carefully outline the evidence assessment procedure and detail who examined what, how, what method or procedure, what tools were involved, and how the acquisition was accomplished. 
	 
	The report will outline a carefully detailed explanation of how the evidence was examined, by who, their qualifications, and their conclusions. 
	 
	Preparation-First topic of a report 
	 
	May be vulnerable because the crime scene is not documented properly 
	Gives information about what happened 
	Every single piece of evidence should be marked, labeled, and documented 
	 
	Objective Evidence-When evidence can be verified by a third party. It helps to create new theories and avenues of thought 
	 
	Subjective Evidence-When evidence cannot be verified by a third party. It is not important and taken into account, by the court 
	 
	Any omitted documentation from any step could be singled out and the report can be termed as inadequate and questionable. 
	 
	Digital Forensics Report for Businesses-Only require conclusions 
	 
	Expert Witness-Willing to testify in court 
	Has good knowledge about the evidence and investigation process 
	The final piece to check whether the suspect should be charged 
	Helps the investigation team 
	Armed with sufficient knowledge to help the attorney understand the case 
	 
	Forensic Expert Witness-The job of the forensic expert witness is to report the forensic processes used to collect evidence, the evidence collected, the events leading to the investigation, the events that occurred during the investigation, and any reasonable conclusions from the facts of the investigation. 
	 
	A forensic expert witness can begin working as early as the first steps in investigating a case. This enables an expert witness to be able to testify of his or her first-hand knowledge of the processes, events, evidence, and conclusion in the case. 
	 
	After the written report is analyzed by the attorney,4 possible scenarios can take place 
	 
	Ignore the report 
	Agree with the facts stated and perform ruling 
	Ask for a second opinion, to subject experts 
	Seek an argument with the court, to reaffirm if the events occurred or are possible 
	 
	Before an expert witness is selected, a thorough check is conducted, on the professional conduct of a person. These are:- 
	 
	On the job conduct:- 
	Confidentality 
	Compliance with ethical standards 
	Expertise and knwoledge 
	 
	Off the job conduct:- 
	Morals 
	Binding with law 
	Compliance with ethical principles, for an average citizen 
	 
	The evidence noted down in an informal report will not be the same, in a formal report 
	Informal report-Made to anyone 
	 
	Best Evidence Rule-All evidence submitted to court should pass this rule 
	Rules:- 
	Hard copy of evidence (if possible) 
	Bit stream copies 
	Original phones,USB devices 
	 
	A copy of evidence may be treated as the best if the original evidence is not available 
	 
	The expectation of Privacy-Applicable to all citizens of a country. 
	That is, evidence can only be seized, if a warrant is obtained. All citizens have the right to ask for information and are safe 
	 
	Places of evidence, where a warrant is not required:- 
	 
	Public places 
	Government-owned items-garbage cans 
	Open fields 
	 
	Exigent Circumstances-A circumstance, where an officer believes that evidence should be seized asap because it has a high chance of being destroyed. 
	 
	In this case, the evidence can be seized, before obtaining the warrant. The suspect is also arrested, before claiming the evidence 
	 
	Procedural Circumstances-The part of the investigation, where trained officers are:- 
	Able to explain how evidence was collected 
	Ethical standards displayed by officers and while collecting evidence 
	They are the resources that analyze and collect evidence 
	 
	Accepting evidence in court:- 
	 
	The report should be written in a manner, that the judge and any layman can understand it 
	The judge may not be skilled in Digital Forensics 
	 
	 
	Usage of technology or a new way of explaining things is debated upon. 
	 
	There are two standards for accepting evidence in court 
	 
	Frye Standard Testifies for the usage of a general technique to validate evidence. Makes use of experts to validate the same 
	 
	Daubert Standard (since 1993)-Two principles are followed-Relevance and Reliability of evidence. It sheds light on shoddy practices and procedures 

